Dear Dr. Barbour,

I was first introduced to your ideas when listening to a CBC podcast, "Living on Oxford Time." I had to pull my car over to absorb the remainder of the show, and have listened to it several times since. I have also purchased your books. These ideas somehow fit into the framework of R. Buckminster Fuller, whom I have studied, as an architect, for decades.

I have always been frustrated by the geometric limitations of conventional CAD and BIM software, insofar as they do not readily allow for the easy manipulation of complex polyhedral forms with rational "snaps" or other forms of geometric exploration. I know this more intimately than most, having worked with French architect and amateur mathematician Olivier Dentan in 2017 to develop a series of hand-coded Platonic polyhedra for use within the ArchiCAD software platform. The coding in ArchiCAD's GDL language (Geometric Descriptive Language) I found also lacking—decimal positions had to be expanded to four places, and even then, working out precise geometries for manufacturing geodesic dome panels was fraught with inaccuracies.

When I learned of N.J. Wildberger's (UNSW mathematician) approach to Rational Trigonometry and the pure algebraic treatment of geometry, all three of these sets of ideas finally resolved. I have since built a demonstration platform—with the assistance of AI coding models—to describe Fuller's "Synergetics," a vector-geometric approach to energy and structure using "Nature's Coordinate System": the 4-axial Quadray (tetrahedral) coordinate space, with the rigour of Wildberger's (and Weierstrass's) rational algebra.

The mathematics "under the hood" at https://arossti.github.io/ARTexplorer/ remains in quadrance and algebraic space for as long as possible before passing coordinates to the GPU layer, whereupon the elegant math is converted back into XYZ coordinate space for rendering. (We use THREE.js for this, though it would be possible to construct a purpose-built rendering engine with zero computational overhead or loss due to mantissa truncation.)

What prompted me to write to you is this: while implementing scaling controls for polyhedra, I realised that tetrahedral coordinates—where all of 3D space can be described with non-negative values—naturally prompt a question that Cartesian coordinates never ask: what constitutes a *negative* position? The answer cannot be "the other direction," since the four basis vectors already span all directions. This led me to implement what I am calling "Geometric Janus Inversion"—an extension of your temporal Janus Point concept to spatial geometry, where forms can scale through the origin into what may be a complementary dimensional space.

I attach a PDF summarizing this intersection of ideas, which is also available at the blog post here: https://openbuilding.ca/2026/01/09/rational-trigonometry-pt-2/. ("OpenBuilding, Inc." is a small nonprofit I run here in Canada, dedicated to improving the efficiency of architecture through better tools at the earliest stages of design.)

In the ARTexplorer application, you may drag the "Scale" slider past zero to see how this functions—the background inverts from black to white as forms cross what I think of as the geometric Janus Point.

I hope this may offer at least a compelling diversion, even if it is not in direct alignment with how you perceive your theory to play out in reality. I would be honoured to hear any thoughts you might have.

With respect and gratitude for your work,

Andy Thomson
Toronto, Canada
