Dear Mr. Barbour, 

I was first introduced to your ideas when listening to a CBC podcast ‘Living on Oxford Time’. I had to pull my car over to absorb the remainder of the show, and have listened to it several times since. I have also purchased your books. These ideas somehow fit into the framework of R.Buckminster Fuller, whom I have studied, as an architect, for decades. I have always been frustrated by the geometric limitations of conventional CAD and BIM software, insofar as they do not readily allow for the easy manipulation of complex polyhedral forms with rational ’snaps’ or other forms of geometric exploration. 

I know this more intimately than most as I worked with French architect and amateur mathematician Olivier Dentan back in 2017 in developing a series of hand-coded Platonic Polyhedra for use within the ArchiCad software platform. The coding in the GDL language of ArchiCad (Geometric Descriptive Language) I found  also lacking, decimal positions had to be expanded to 4 places, and even then, working out precise geometries for manufacturing panels for geodesic dome surfaces was still fraught with inaccuracies. 

When I learned of NJ Wildberber's (USW Mathematician) approach to Rational Trigonometry and the pure algebraic treatment of geometry in dimensional space, all three of these sets of ideas finally resolved, and so I have built a demonstration platform (with the assistance of the very best of AI coding models) to describe Fuller’s ’Synergetics’, a vector-geometric approach to energy and structure using ’Nature’s Coordinate System’, the 4-axial Quadray or Tetrahedral coordinate space, with the rigour of Wildberger (and Weierstrass’) rational algebra. The mathematics ‘under the hood’ at https://arossti.github.io/ARTexplorer/, remains in Quadrance and algebraic space for as long as possible, before passing coordinates to the GPU layer, whereupon the elegant math is squashed back into XYZ coordinate space for the purpose of rendering (we use THREE.js for this), however it would be possible to construct a purpose-built rendering engine with zero computational overhead or loss due to mantissa. 

I attach a link to a PDF summarizing this intersection of ideas for you here, which can also be viewed at the blog post here: https://openbuilding.ca/2026/01/09/rational-trigonometry-pt-2/ - where ‘OpenBuilding, Inc.’ is a small nonprofit I run here in Canada dedicated to improving the efficiency of architecture through the use of better tools at the earliest stages of design. 

I hope this may at least allow for you at the very least a compelling diversion, if not in direct alignment with how you perceive your theory to play out in reality. You may select the ’Scale’ slider to drag past ‘Zero’ to see how this all functions. 

Kind Regards,

Andy